What proportion of you think your
children will have at least one serious
relationship with an AI throughout their
lifetime?
>> I think zero right now. I don't think
we're close to crossing the human AI
barrier. But it is worth thinking things
are changing every day. We have to
incorporate and do that. And then
there's also some weird universal truths
of things that stick around for 40 years
and you kind of have to blend them
together. We feel if we build Roblox
right, it might be the kind of thing
that's kicking around in 40 years.
>> Hi listeners, welcome back to No Priors.
Today Allad and I are here with Dave
Bazooki, the founder and CEO of Roblox,
[music] the 3D immersive world where
more than 150 million users come every
day to hang out. We talked with Dave
about the future of AI and gaming, their
investments in AI, how NPCs are going to
change and really transform game
Roblox's studio, one of the largest
coding platforms out there, and their
20-year mission to build the holiday.
Welcome, Dave. Dave, thanks so much for
doing this with us.
>> It is so great to be here, and thank you
for doing this in Roblox headquarters.
>> Well, exciting to be here.
>> Yeah, great to have you guys. Thanks.
>> So, I think we want to start with a big
picture question. I think um you all
have been really visionary in terms of
where all this is heading and AI is
obviously having a big wave and effect
on gaming and what's going to happen in
the future there and that's across
things like world models how do you
think about NPCs and their evolution uh
how you think about assets within games
how you think about world creation so we
just love to hear your views of like big
picture 10 years from now where are we
going like what's coming
>> yeah so two-step on this one I would say
first I know you both dabble in
investing a little
>> so there is there is a rope Roblox
business plan PowerPoint deck from
almost 20 years ago that we pull out
sometimes and we're amazed at the
fidelity of it. It uh pretends a new
category. One could call it the category
of human coexperience. It's got the
sizes of a bunch of companies from 20
years ago. So you can see social
networking companies, you can see
YouTube video, you can see toys, and you
can see all of that. And what this what
it imagined is really a new category.
Some have called it the metaverse. Some
have called it the the hollow deck which
is really the ultimate highfidelity
simulation where people can come
together and do stuff.
>> Feels like a Ready Player One the movie.
>> Exactly. And so we do have that business
plan slide. And and what we had always
imagined is if this hype fidelity space
was backed by physics simulation and
reality simulation, you'd be able to do
stuff. You'd be able to build a car, put
wheels on it, drive it around. You'd be
able to go to a birthday party and blow
out the candles. You'd be able to chop
trees down and make a a house of it. So
that that was literally the genesis of
Roblox. And here we are 20 years later.
There's so much more to do. But one
vision of AI is how do you superpower
the creation of that hollow deck? And
how do you get it photo realistic as
soon as possible? How do you get 10,000
people in it instead of a hundred? How
do you do acoustic simulation that
sounds realistic with 10,000 people? So
in that sense, AI is super interesting
about just trying to get a vision that's
been around for 20 years and has
arguably been in sci-fi once again, snow
crash, holiday forever. Um there is
another interesting vision and and I
think it's useful comparing these
product um things that's much more
what's the future of just a single
person by themselves dreaming what they
want to dream and um we sometimes call
that real time dreaming category. It's a
category that we can see a bit of
trappings of with short form video.
There's a little bit of that in short
form video. You know someone's 2 a.m. in
their bed doom
>> scrolling. It's reacting to dwell time.
It's reacting to what you favorite. And
you're kind of getting a little bit of a
pre-built dream that I think we
sometimes imagine could go all the way
to the famous Tom Cruz movie to Vanilla
Sky where he literally real time dreamed
for several years in an imaginary
universe where everyone around him was
primarily an NPC and um he didn't even
know he was doing it. So that
>> so that's more world building as content
>> that that is exactly right and so if if
you put those at two extremes one is
communication platform highfidelity with
people you know the other is real time
dreaming where everyone's an NPC
everything in between is possible and I
think we see everything in between
ultimately as being possible and we may
see weird product categories we never
imagined You know, I I think people are
probably thinking, does the text prompt
turn into a voice prompt and does it
automatically turn into a video prompt
if there's like I want to learn French
video? How you're in a French cafe,
start talking to an NPC? So, I think I
think I think there's a wide range of
products that start to get into this
space we're interested in, which is kind
of that 3D reality space. Do you think
that same space will exist for both
consumer and business applications?
Because people also talk about this in
the context of you're instead of doing a
zoom why don't you go into a shared
space with someone and meet with that
you know what degree of your life
becomes virtual.
>> Yeah, we have seen um I think on the
communication side people just want more
and more fidelity. We can go back to
paintings on the wall of a cave. People
want more fidelity. We have smoke
signals. We have the mail system. We
have the Pony Express. We have the
telegraph system.
>> We have the phone system. We have the
arguably the COVID initiated video.
>> Uh we also did have the COVID initiated
3D experience on Roblox actually and and
we found sidebyside video. A lot of
young people used Roblox as an early
test case of how to co-experience. I
think as the technology for multiplayer
4D simulation gets better and more
photorealistic,
it's almost going to be like video is
the downsampling. And it's like if if we
were having this um 4D immersive
communication, we'd say go to legacy
analog mode and make it look like Zoom
basically. And and we could always do
that,
>> but we'd be able to do things we could
never do on Zoom. you know, you'd say,
"Hey, let's pop up and go walk around my
office and I I want to show you
something. Come and follow me." kind of
thing. So, I do think the 4D simulation
as it gets photo realistic will be a
supererset of video. The the other thing
for business is um there's a few things
that 4D and I use 4D because it's not
just 3D shape, but its function in a way
will provide that video does not provide
is acoustical things. And there there's
some real tricky physics problems when
there you're having a company meeting of
a thousand people. If we try to do it on
Zoom, we have like a bunch of squares.
What's who's live? Who's not live? How
do we mix the sound? Which is very
tricky. If we do it in a a
three-dimensional simulation, I can hear
everyone with attenuation based on how
far they are. And it can actually be a
much more natural experience. It's like
I I walk closer to you and I I hear you.
And that that may actually be a better
human interface paradigm. There's one
final technical thing that's going to be
very very difficult is when people try
to sing happy birthday to you together
and because no matter whether you're on
Zoom or whether you're in a 3D
simulation, you're hearing them like 30
milliseconds later. So what I think
we're going to find is people are
actually allowing each one of us to sing
happy birthday with a timeforward
extrapolation of each other and then
remixing it. So I do um to you know for
the business side I do think ultimately
we're going to see some interesting
conferencing solutions.
>> Roblox has this amazing wild story with
physics simulation and or physics engine
as like part of the the birth of Roblox.
But then today or or for the last decade
I have um I think of this as a immersive
world where people have their first
coding experiences. They build amazing
games. They interact with each other. I
don't think of that world has been as
being super focused on realism.
>> That's right.
>> Um so is that something that's changing
for you guys? Is it enabled now? Like
how how should we think about that? I
think what you um the way I would think
about it is we're pushing really hard on
the physics simulation capability and at
the same time we have this incredible
free market that we can't control on
content generation. I I would say we are
just started talking about full acoustic
simulation. I just tweeted about it. So
actually you know approximate you know
attenuation and all of this kind of
things and echoes that's going to start
happening on the physics simulator. It's
behind the scenes gotten better and
better and better. It'll keep getting
better. But what we have found I I would
say is the diversity of developers are
beyond our expectation. And I would say
some of the things that have gone viral,
Dress to Impress, for example, Grow a
Garden are less physical. Um but they
have leveraged cloud capabilities um
that we've built side by side. you know,
grow a garden was essentially able to
build an experience where things keep
growing even when you're not there by
leveraging a lot of the cloud
persistence we provided. Uh, dress to
impress was able to do some very
interesting things with how they run
contests and layer clothing on. So, I
think we're generally, you know, the
specification for our product could be
we just want to simulate the real world
with 10,000 people. And the more we go
in that direction, the more we'll just
see creators using it in different ways.
>> How much attention have you been paying
to world models and what's been
happening in the AI world in terms of
how people are shifting how they do
physics simulation? Right.
>> I think we're really watching it. I
think that the biggest thing we have
focused on and I think we'll continue to
focus on is how do we get that 10,000
player multiplayer type experience and
how do we fall back to 100 or 10 or one?
We feel it's super robust to build a
communication platform and you know
that's part of our goal of getting to
10% of gaming. The the technology for
this I think we're going to start
unraveling it over the next 5 to 10
years is what's the most efficient way
to synchronize the state of 10,000
people and and when
>> it's a deep infrastructure problem
versus necessarily a physics. How do we
synchronize the state and the memory
over the last 5 hours of 10,000 people?
Where have they been? Um where have they
been in 3D space? What have they been
doing? The the world model thing is very
exciting because they're storing memory
literally video latence. You know, a
minute of frames. It's showing super
early promise. I think the technical
revolution is going to be what's the
ultimate synchronized state for 10,000
people. Is it in video latence? Is it in
much more native 3D format? Is it a
hybrid new discovery of some 3D video
latent space? To be determined. I I will
share that the format we're using, part
of the vision for us is to ultimately
store the history of everything on
Roblox and to store it not raster like
video, but store it vector, which means
the ability um to play back anything
that's ever happened on Roblox. That's
13 billion hours a month. Um and so the
ability
>> What do you think that does for you? The
history of your world. Um, so there's a
there's a sci-fi book by Arthur C. Clark
called The Light of Other Days, which um
talks about the fantasy of what would
happen if we had infinite playback in
our world. It's like a real social
problem. Um, because if everything we've
ever done can be played back, um,
actually in that sci-fi book, it's not
just everything could be played back,
but you could look at any playback.
>> And so everything's completely
transparent. there's no private
conversations. It actually delves into
that. I think for us, we would then use
it very thoughtfully and privacy
compliant and judiciously. But for very
simple things, you can imagine ah there
was a safety incident. Let's go back and
put five cameras and listen to the audio
and see what happened
>> and make a good judgment call. That's
kind of interesting. Um there there's a
really special thing that maybe I did
with someone in my family that's really
special given I have access to my
history. Go play that back and possibly
because it's 3D vector data, not raster
data, reshoot it from make a cool video
of the best moment. And I think where it
ultimately ends up for us is there's a
huge push now for people to find kind of
hybrid video ASDW human interaction
data. People are starting to train on
video with keyboard stuff and like where
do I find 200 million hours of this
data? The data we have which is 13
billion hours a month is can be
reproduced from any camera angle and can
interact with the 3D space. So it's very
powerful data. It leads to a really
interesting computer science program um
idea around how to create great NPCs
that are more than just an LLM.
>> Okay, tell us more about that. Actually,
that sounds really interesting.
>> Yeah, go check out on XRX feed. I think
the last day or two we released a bunch
of uh native video demos and maybe we
can even play them back here. But what
what we are starting to train is NPCs
based on a combination of all of the
data we have in a privacy compliant way
that are starting to navigate and
starting to play games. The challenge I
think um would be um challenge level
one, everyone has access to an NPC that
can get pretty good at playing any
Roblox game.
>> Super cool. challenge level two is by
watching if I so opt in in a privacy
compliant way, my behaviors, the way I
act, literally my gestures, the way I
look at things, the way I talk.
>> Um would we allow you to have your own
virtual doppelganger if you wanted?
>> That's fascinating. Um and then um
number three would be is if I if I have
a good virtual doppelganger
um just as agentic is all the buzz in
other areas. Is there a simple user
interface for agentic virtual
doppelgangers? And that that starts to
get interesting because one could
imagine sending their virtual self out
to go do something. It could be you know
my my son or my daughter wants to play
with me. I having to do some work. Could
my virtual doppelganger fit in for 15
minutes? Sure, that's great. You know,
that could be really interesting. Um,
and there's a lot of other um things
just like we're going to see agentic
space and the 2D and the work space and
the productivity area. I think it's
going to be interesting to imagine.
>> So, you're basically using these 18
billion hours a month to train
>> 13 billion
>> 13 billion excel
that will be a Roblox privacy compliant
model. will never share the data. And
then over time, no ship date, make that
customizable as your own virtual
doppelganger or for creators with the
addition of a prompt, you know, um
upload um Benjamin Franklin's history or
it's already embedded in an LLM and just
say, "Hey, I want Ben Franklin." Yeah.
>> And I want a happy Ben Franklin. Are
there experiences that you imagine um
creators making with these NPCs that are
really different from
>> I think there's a lot of um standard
game NPCs
um that that I think have done such a
good job. I wouldn't claim when these
types of NPCs would be good enough, but
like Grand Theft Auto, right? They've
been working on this forever. That is a
very rich world with a lot of very high
performance you know NPC behavior
imagining someday
>> um many people can create them. Um I
think to make that happen these
platforms have to be very cloud
connected platforms rather than running
local um to spin up inference on all of
these things. But you could imagine
that. You could imagine a very young
creator saying, "I'd like to build an
American history thing where you go and
talk to Benjamin Franklin." So, I think
we would want to enable both of those.
>> It's really interesting because
basically the transition is this is
going to be a poor analog, but there's a
transition that happened in
self-driving. where you went from
mapping out heristics in subbehaviors
and sort of fine detail to capture edge
cases to just doing end to end uh models
for deep learning and it sounds like
you're basically considering doing the
same thing for NPCs.
>> There's that that's the exciting
computer science capability is rather
than a you know all of these wonderful
techniques people have used you know
decision trees and this and this getting
to a purely more general modeling
solution would be really fascinating.
>> Yeah. Super interesting.
>> What do you think the role of like a
Roblox game designer or any game
designer is five five years out from
now? Do you think it's different?
>> I think I think I'm optimistic that
typically industrial revolution or
whatever revolution I think we've
chatted about stuff like this before.
There's a thought that there won't be
any jobs after this. I think I'm a
little bit more optimistic that a new
class of things will show up and I think
there's a huge opportunity for more
creators. I think,
>> you know, I'm not to the point where I
believe, you know, what we call AI slop
today is going to take over. Like I
think the human touch is got a long
runway on it. So you could imagine um
more diversity or quality of experiences
um supplemented by AI. So but I do think
um the role will be more leveraged and
the quality coming out of five people
will be astounding
>> you know but we'll come to expect that
quality so quality will go up I think uh
iteration on testing will go up I think
where we see platforms like Roblox going
is just as um people are starting to
spin up agents to develop code I think
people hopefully on Roblox platform
against the Roblox cloud. You'll be able
to go away for 24 hours and your agents
are going to be like tweaking and
testing, spinning up a Roblox
experience, sending 20 NPCs into them on
various client emulators. Here's an NPC
on a phone. There's an NPC here tuning
the game. So hopefully you'll feel more
power in what you're building. I'm also
curious. There's um a set of research
around world models that I'm I'm sure
you've seen that is just trying to
directly generate game experiences with
like there's no physics engine
underneath like you don't control the
mechanisms it's just video. What's your
view on that?
>> I think it's like a super exciting
interesting thing to think about. Yeah,
>> I think like I said before, I think one
thing is going to be the higher the
fidelity is memory stored in video
latence
>> or does there need to be another
research breakthrough where memory is
ultimately stored in some new latent
space that's 3D or four dimension. But
the fidelity is amazing. I think that's
really beautiful and I I think that the
the way we would see the ultimate
architectures of these platforms is
probably for a while not an all-in-one
thing. We would probably see some hyper
efficient thousand person
synchronization state engine.
>> We might also see some of the photo
realism not being done server side but
being done in intermediate spaces or
client side ex as well. And we may see
multi-step pipelines where there's the
raw framework, there's 3D upsampling,
then there's local 2D upsampling. We're
actually going, oh my gosh, like people
are putting together a bunch of pieces,
you know, dedicated NPC capability,
dedicated synchronization capability, 3D
upsampling, 2D upsampling, and
potentially world model stuff. you know,
world model. Um, you know, you can
imagine that being used even in its
early state today rather than maybe a
gameplay state where rather than
making a video, you talk about the video
while you walk around and you kind of
say, "Put me in a western world. I want
to go left. I want to go right. Add a
few horses." And that video actually
goes to a multiplayer experience. You
one could imagine that. I think what a
lot of other people are wondering is
does short form video does someone hit
it just like they did with short form
video into a highly retentive like local
dreaming product that could just react
to what you're doing. I think it's still
early for both of those but it's a big
possibility. I I would say though we are
doubled down on a a hybrid multi-A tech
stack that supports multiplayer
natively. Yeah, I I think one of the
ideas that's like internationally very
interesting has been the idea that you
could generate um like serial micro
dramas as a form that is not yet that
popular in the west but seems like a
good format for the technology
>> micro dramas. I've watched a few I mean
it's really interesting you know if you
it's fun to see like some entrepreneurs
tried to do that I won't mention who
like five or 10 years ago then they
naturally
>> emerged kind of thing. It's interesting
to think if those micro dramas are
easier to produce. They don't need live
actors, but you know what is the
plotline that really resonates. You
know, we'll we'll see with that.
>> And you can mass test that at scale if
you're using AI, right? You can actually
you know a very large number of
iterations. This kind of one of the
arguments people make around the firmy
paradox of like why haven't we seen
alien life? And the idea is it's just
there's alien life. are just stuck in
these virtual worlds now where you know
it's fun the real world
>> like what's the famous quote where is
everyone
>> yeah exactly
>> so one option is they're in some virtual
landscape that's more compelling than
the real world and so therefore there's
no reason to travel the universe
>> or it could be you know we we could
really start
conjecturing what's the future evolution
is it human or machine life and all of
that
>> and once it gets to maybe human machine
life what happens Yeah. The subsumption.
Yeah.
>> Yeah. That's a
>> interesting.
>> Yeah.
>> That's the vanilla sky thing.
>> Exactly.
>> Or or the the optimistic thing is more
the holiday thing like everyone's
hanging out with other people rather
than a simulation of themselves.
>> Yeah. Are there experiences that you
imagine from a like a communication or a
social perspective that um you think are
going to be uh just different or new or
that you're going to have real insights
into from these like really great NPCs,
right? Because I'm sure you've seen what
has happened with the rise of AI
companions and how engaging they are
given they're just text interfaces.
There's some fun things that like
there's a Black Mirror dating episode. I
don't know if you've seen it
>> where they have they have a lot of
virtual doppelganger power. And
obviously I'm not So Roblox is not doing
dating. We're just talking about this
right now, you know, blah blah blah 18
plus ID verified, all of that. So let's
not go crazy, but let's think about a
future um in the Black Mirror episode
where you literally can spawn the life
of a thousand virtual doppelgangers.
um that thousand virtual doppelgangers,
you're on your new dating app in three
minutes. Um you know, someone else's
virtual doppelgangers live a thousand
virtual lives with your virtual
doppelganger. And then they say, "What's
the success rate?" And when the like the
thousand virtual doppelgangers say 98%
of the time we had a good life, then you
say, "Oh, we should go on a date or
something." So there's um
>> social simulation.
There's a lot of things we I think are
going to be really hard to project. I
think one of the things
>> we would focus on is the more we can
just build raw high performance
infrastructure, have AI as a service,
have all of these things capable in a
cloud, have the same thing run on a
phone as a computer, have it auto
translate. Hopefully, we would discover
some of these things. Yeah, I'm I'm
really optimistic about that given the
engagement that people see with these
companions as just a text interface with
like the beginning of memory, right?
Versus if you're Roblox, you have
embodiment, you have, as you said, cloud
persistence. And I think it's just going
to make the characters much more
interesting very quickly.
>> Thinking through how we would embody
memory for NPCs, which is more than
just, you know, a prompt. Um, one could
imagine any NPC on Roblox because we
have recording of the whole thing, they
actually have access to everything
they've ever said or done in a very lean
format. So, they can go back through
that, retrain on that. Um, so that
hopefully would be a native part of the
platform. But I do know, yeah, there's a
lot of interesting engagement with these
types of companions and imagining fully
3D versions will be like pretty
fascinating. Yeah, a friend of mine
basically asks um at dinner parties, he
he runs a well-known AI company and his
sort of controversial question for the
group is often, "What proportion of you
think your children will have at least
one serious relationship with an AI like
throughout their lifetime?"
>> I think zero right now.
>> I do I don't I don't think we're close
to crossing the human AI barrier. Um but
it is worth thinking. He meant it even
in the context of like even if it's
superficial and there isn't true
intelligence behind it just given the
behavior with text once you start having
video virtual worlds
>> I can imagine a real time coach
therapist like in your earbud just
hanging out all the time.
>> Yeah. So I I think for that kind of less
evasive more over your shoulder coaching
I think that seems like
>> that's already a major use case it seems
for uh some of the like chat GPT and
other platforms where uh mental health
advice or coaching or other things like
that are actually one of the major use
cases.
>> Yeah, I think that will be arguably very
valuable.
>> Can I ask like an industry perspective
question just given you've worked in
gaming for a very long time now. Um, why
do you think uh like there's a lot of
discussion about how assets of different
types are cheaper to create with
generative tools? Um, I don't think
that's really change the dynamics of the
gaming industry yet. I don't know if you
would agree with that claim or explain
it.
>> One could say no matter how cheap it is
to create assets, the expectation of
quality from consumers goes up at
exactly the same velocity.
>> Okay?
>> And so, you know, what was not possible
a while ago the expectation of consumers
will go up.
>> I think there's a there's a general
notion that the technology for the
gaming industry
has to move to
cloud vertically integrated and asset
management can't just ship on a DVD or
be a giant download. I think we're we're
really seeing we've launched um dynamic
LOD for textures, meshes is on the way.
So you could imagine every single asset
in the game um sound uh 3D object image
can exist in various formats.
Traditional format is it's like a
texture or a mesh or an audio file. Mhm.
>> Future format could be it's an AI prompt
and it's generated procedurally on
demand. So there's these two things.
They're both very AI enabled. One can
then imagine that you have to be cloud
connected because for all of these
assets you know full range of LOD just
like with video uh streaming upsampling
on low-end devices you need low LOD
high-end devices you need 4K LOD and
ultimately um on demand AI generation
that then gets into um once again one of
the demos is probably on 3D upsampling
um the notion that if someone makes a
very primitive experience on Roblox,
they would augment it with a prompt and
they'd just say, "I know it's kind of
primitive, but make it kind of look
medieval and more realistic and have all
of those assets auto upsample to in 3D
in the cloud for free on demand." That
that kind of just in time thing is some
of the stuff we're thinking about how AI
can accelerate if you have a cloud
platform. Roblox is also from the studio
perspective one of the biggest
development environments in the world.
>> That's right.
>> Uh what are you seeing from the
perspective of AI coding there?
>> Yeah. So this is great. So once again
industry standard ways of using a
different model with studio. So if
you're in cloud code you can control
studio is super exciting. And so a lot
of our users have started gluing these
things together wi with the hope
ultimately you know they can build stuff
from there. Roblox Studio itself is
running a native assistant as well and a
native code engine. And I think the the
pattern for that is Roblox Studio will
more and more for code follow many of
those industry best practices but in
parallel needs to have kind of an
environmental generation
kind of component that's very unique to
that and I think I think the future of
environmental generation is once again
any prompt you can imagine text image
video possibly walking around in a world
model to define a world having iterate
on that, iterate on that to a primitive
3D skeleton. Do I like it? And then
iterating on that to a fully functional
game. So as that I think that's our
vision is to run those side by side so
first time studio user gets it out of
the box at the same time we like plug
into all of your um AI workflow. I think
the final thing is because it's so cloud
connected that thing we talked about
earlier spinning up jobs spinning up
agents running test plans kind of keep
grinding away trying something um
different is like you have all of that
cloud capability.
>> Just out of curiosity what is the like
cycle of development for a successful
Roblox game today? the um what we have
seen
>> is over the years bigger teams so that
you know the top
Roblox creators now are well into the
tens and tens and 30s plus million a
year like it's really serious stuff we
have seen in the Roblox creator
community I think a healthy sign that
creator number 1 and what is their
average yearly revenue is going up
faster than creator number one so that's
a bit of a healthy long tale. And I
would say all the way out to creator
thousand, there's such a huge community
of people making a living. What I think
our creators have found is it's gotten
both more healthy but more competitive.
And I think we've seen the pattern now
of much more live ops in that because
this is cloud, you can update your
experience just like good websites every
day or every week. And that that is just
kind of a constant practice. So I say
update frequency much more rapid
>> which is great for users because they
get uh updated content at a faster rate.
>> That's right. Users love updates. They
love new things. It keeps games fresh.
Um so I think the um the other thing we
we have seen we've um on the discovery
side we've tried to and more and more
taken the approach we want discovery to
be completely transparent.
um like these are all the things that
are going into the discovery algorithm.
We we check it. There's a benefit to
that transparency and discovery and that
it actually keeps a lot of pressure on
us. You know, oh my gosh, someone's
going to gain discovery.
>> Uh well, then we better make it really
good, right? And and transparent. I
actually think transparent discovery and
recommendations is an interesting trend
for the industry worth talking about. Um
but so so with that we have seen also
the kind of the content distribution get
richer and a little bit less spiky
there. There's now like the top 20
experiences on Roblox are all really
good and all kind of vying for the
number one slot which maybe wasn't so
true three or four years ago.
>> Zooming all the way out for a second.
Like I I I think it was true five or 10
years ago when we met. Um it was true
when I was talking to one of the members
of your leadership team today. They will
say you're a extremely high conviction,
very long-term oriented leader, right?
So they, you know, 20-year plan for
Roblox and we're going to do things the
way we have a vision toward. You're
obviously also all in on AI, right? Very
excited about the technologies and
investing in them. How do you like
square these things where you have a
very long-term view when so much is
happening in the environment?
>> I think we um we always want to pair
take the long view, which is one of our
four big values, with get stuff done.
And so, um, the it's almost like in
those old Gartner charts, you know, take
the long view, not take the long view.
Yeah. Get stuff done, not take the like
the magic quadrant is take the long
view, get stuff done, we we typically
mean inside the company, rapid
iteration. And so if someone has a view
of some exciting new product and we're
going to ship it in 6 months, that can
be a very um scary thing unless it can
be broken down like we're going to ship
this thing every week and iterate
towards this. But we have a good target
of where we're going. And so I think
inside the company we I'd say our AI
team, our facial age estimation team,
our safety team, these are literally
things working on a weekly basis which
allows a fairly fast reaction time. AI I
think is arguably as far as speed right
now just every day. But you mean you
make it sound pretty simple in that like
all the things that you're trying to get
done on a week or a six month time
scale, they're all aligned toward a
vision that like
>> if you have your 6 to 12 month vision,
>> yeah,
>> hopefully that's moving not too fast.
Um, but at the same time, the weekly
iterations are moving very quickly in
that direction and and you know that you
could say the Roblox vision is
ultimately to build the holiday and it's
10,000 people. It's multi-player
realtime modification of the
environment. It's NPCs
>> photorealistic. That's a pretty stable
spec for 20 years. And so then
>> I actually feel like that's the biggest
takeaway for me here. like I spent a lot
of time with um software CEOs, right?
And I think there's a lot of actual
concern about like is the vision we had
for the company in terms of its
durability or its value
>> uh still as valuable as we thought 5
years ago. And for Roblox perhaps
because you were, you know, pointing at
something so far away to begin with,
it's like pretty clear, you know, I
think AI only moves you.
>> We have crisped that up over the years.
I would say two years ago we were a
little less crisp. We would say we're
going for a billion DAUs. That's a good
spec. With this spec I just mentioned,
it's a little harder to operationalize
around product management teams and
that. So we we took a step a stepping
stone and said we want to get to 10% of
global gaming content um on the way to
that. It's actually a remarkably good
step. It's about 300 million DAUs. It's
about 20 billion. It's about 3x where we
are. It can be forensically torn apart.
We can see what part is the USA market.
We actually have a higher target for us
than 10%.
>> Um, and so that has been very
clarifying. I think for a software CEO,
always knowing both 3x and 10x is very
helpful because if you don't know 10x,
then it's hard to sleep at night. If you
don't know 3x, it's hard to plan
forensically
how we're going to operationalize that,
how quickly we're going to get there.
>> One other thing that I think that um
Roblox has done uniquely well is uh how
you've thought about hiring and how you
you've rethought certain aspects of
that. Yeah.
>> And I think that's really led to people
have more bias to action who are moving
quickly, who are iterating rapidly. Um
can you talk a little about how you've
rethought some aspects of that if you're
willing to share that as part of
>> Yeah. I mean, one is we've been very
public that we we really want values
aligned people that are good problem
solvers that are very creative
and it's hard to do signal to noise and
that kind of a hiring thing. So what we
actually bought a company about five
years ago that was doing their best
scientifically to build 3D assessment
tooling for some big companies to really
find people who are problem solvers and
creative.
>> That's part of what I was referring to.
That was fascinating that you did that
acquisition.
>> So we we we bought Embellis. We got a
great team of scientists, people that
had been involved with the SAT test and
all of that, and we've tuned that to our
new college grad intern program. So far
we've essentially I believe in a very
fair meritocracy kind of way taken the
whatever it is 10 50 60,000 people run
them all through what we've I think
shown to be somewhat of a very fair
non-weighted by any other social factor
assessment and the people that come out
of there we have an incredible
confidence that they're problem solvers
um they do a bunch of other things
really well so We we kind of have this
building wave inside the company of
three years ago, two years ago, one year
ago of these 100, 200, 300, 400 people
that hopefully were like mentoring some
of the best future leaders in the
industry.
>> Yeah, it's super interesting because I
have a number of friends who always talk
about how you discover untapped sources
of talent or how do you find the best
people in the world and are there ways
to test for that or sort of screen for
that?
>> We we've done a lot of testing on this,
fairness testing, um looking backwards
on it. I'm I'm very confident in where
it's going to go for us.
>> Super interesting.
>> Yeah, it's it's like a very
systemsoriented approach. The one thing
I I we have found which is a little edgy
might be the correlation between
traditional universities and our own
testing and and we we hire
>> Sorry, what's edgy about that?
>> Well, I think people typically think
like I went to Stanford, that's where
all the top talent is. We have found
that not necessarily to be true and and
we have found community college, you
know, the small Midwestern engineering
school, like because we're assessing our
own way, we we kind of we basically
ignore the signal of where you went to
university.
>> I've heard that anecdotally from other
CEOs now, particularly for certain
cohorts, like the cohort that came
during COVID. Yeah.
>> For a lot of the top universities is
perceived as like a weaker cohort. Um,
and I don't know the reason or the
interpretation behind it, but it's
interesting to see the shift um, in
terms of how people even think about
where is some of the best talent. So,
it's interesting that you're kind of
>> saying, so we get we get to be have
self-determination. We get to say
colleges, you do what you want, all of
that. We're just going to do it in a
fair way that we think is our way and
it's worked out. Can you give just uh
because it's so interesting like any
intuition for something you some way you
test for problem solving capability?
>> I think we make public some of the tests
that we use and they the cool thing is
they're all built on roadblocks. They're
all tested by lots of people and they're
arguably really interesting
three-dimensional problems like
programming a factory or like you're
using some new geometric language to
program a robot, you know, it's almost
like turtle graphics and you can play
with that um and see how
>> we're gonna try to get jobs.
I would be I'm I'm actually might be a
little afraid to take the test myself
given how good some of our candidates
are.
>> You know, as a long-term predictor of
the future, is there something happening
in AI that you believe or hold with
conviction like five years out? Do you
think not everybody believes yet?
>> That I believe that not I I think
typically it's the other way. More
people believe more stuff than I
believe.
>> You think of yourself as a skeptic? Uh
well, I think of myself as um
>> he's building the holiday, but he's a
skeptic. I
>> I I think I'm more like a the power of
time and the power of compounding rather
than like an amazing invention and just
rapid iteration. One one thing I
constantly am amazed by is either the
graphical user interface or Microsoft
Excel. I think I was playing with
Microsoft Excel in like the 80s
>> and here we are 40 years later it's not
that different.
>> Yeah.
>> So very useful.
>> So it it's kind of like this interesting
compliment in AI world. Things are
changing every day. We have to
incorporate and do that. And then
there's also some weird universal truths
of things that stick around for 40 years
and you kind of have to blend them
together. So I think that's how we I I
think the good news is we feel if we
build roadblocks right it might be the
kind of thing that's kicking around in
40 years.
>> Awesome. Thanks so much Dave.
>> Thank you for joining us.
>> Thank you. Okay cool.
>> That was really good questions.
>> Find us on Twitter at No Priors Pod.
Subscribe to our YouTube channel if you
want to see our faces. Follow the show
on Apple Podcasts, Spotify or wherever
you listen. [music] That way you get a
new episode every week. And sign up for
emails or find transcripts for every
episode at no-briers.com.